		Setting up a PPP link.

Setting up a PPP link between two machines involves several steps:

1. Prepare both of the machines which are to be connected:
   1A. Make and install the pppd, pppstats and chat programs.
   1B. Install the ppp driver in the kernel.
The README.* files give details on this step.

2. Decide on the IP addresses to be used and the level of
authentication required by each machine, and set up the /etc/ppp
directories accordingly.

3. Set up the serial link between the two machines and run pppd on
each machine.  The two pppd's then negotiate and set up the link.

Step 1 is described in the system-specific README.* files.  The
remaining steps are described below.  Steps 1 and 2 need only be done
once; step 3 is done each time the link is to be established.


Choosing IP addresses.

If a host is already connected to the Internet via a LAN such as
Ethernet, then it will already have at least one IP address assigned,
which will usually be the IP address of the LAN interface.  In such
cases, it is usually most convenient to use that address as the local
IP address of the PPP interface(s) on that host.  This is OK because
the PPP interface(s) are point-to-point interfaces.

If a host is not connected to the Internet, then an IP address needs
to be assigned for it.  If PPP is to be used to link it to another
host which is connected to the Internet, is is usually most convenient
to assign it an address on the same subnet as the remote host.  If the
other host is not connected to the Internet either, then the choice of
IP addresses is quite arbitrary.

Authentication.

The level of authentication required depends on the situation, but
generally hosts which are connected to the Internet via a LAN should
be set up to (a) require the remote host to authenticate itself, and
(b) restrict the remote host's choice of IP address, based on its
identity.  Otherwise the possibility exists for a remote host to
impersonate another host on the local subnet.  (However, when you are
first installing PPP, it is probably easier to leave authentication
disabled until you get to the point where you can successfully
establish a link.)

Setting up /etc/ppp.

The /etc/ppp directory contains various files used by pppd; it should
be created by the system administrator when installing PPP.  It would
typically contain the following files:

    chap-secrets	Secrets used for authenticating with CHAP
    pap-secrets		Secrets used for authenticating with PAP
    options		Options that the system administrator wants to
			apply whenever pppd is run

Since this directory contains files of secrets used for
authentication, it should not be in a partition which is accessible
from other hosts (e.g., exported by NFS).

The `options' file contains any options which the system administrator
wants pppd to use whenever it is run.  If authentication is to be
required, this should contain the `auth' and `usehostname' options.
If the /etc/ppp/options file does not exist, or is not readable by
pppd, it will refuse to run.

Secrets for PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) authentication are
stored in /etc/ppp/pap-secrets; secrets for CHAP (Cryptographic
Authentication Protocol) are stored in /etc/ppp/chap-secrets.  These
files have the same format, and store secrets both for authenticating
other hosts, and for authenticating this host to others.  The format
is that there are 3 or more words per line, which are:

	client - name of the machine to be authenticated
	server - name of the machine requiring the authentication
	secret - password or CHAP secret known by both client and server
	IP addresses - zero or more IP addresses which the client may
		use (this field is only used on the server).

For example, if a LAN-connected host called "worksun" is to require
authentication, and a host "bsdbox" is to connect to it and
authenticate itself using CHAP, then both machines should have a
/etc/ppp/chap-secrets file, which should contain a line something
like:

	bsdbox	worksun	"an unguessable secret"	bsdbox.my.domain

Setting up syslog.

pppd issues messages using syslog facility daemon (or local2 if it has
been compiled with debugging enabled); chat uses facility local2.  It
is useful to see messages of priority notice or higher on the console.
To see these, find the line in /etc/syslog.conf which has /dev/console
on the right-hand side, and add `daemon.notice' on the left.  This
line should end up something like this:

*.err;kern.debug;daemon,local2,auth.notice;mail.crit	/dev/console

If you want to see more messages from pppd, request messages of
priority info or higher for facility daemon, like this:

*.err;kern.debug;daemon.info;local2,auth.notice;mail.crit  /dev/console

It is also useful to add a line like this:

daemon,local2.debug		/etc/ppp/ppp-log

If you do this, you will need to create an empty /etc/ppp/ppp-log
file.

After modifying syslog.conf, you will then need to send a HUP signal
to syslogd (or reboot).


Setting up a PPP link.

Establishing a PPP connection between two machines basically involves
setting up a serial link and running pppd on both ends of the link.
How this is done depends on the nature of the serial link, which may
be as simple as a null modem cable between two machines, or it may
involve modems, terminal servers, telnet sessions, etc.  The `chat'
program is very useful in setting up the serial link because it
enables you to automate any dialog which may be required, e.g.,
logging in to the remote machine with a username and password, issuing
a command to start ppp on the remote machine, etc.  As an example,
the link could be started by issuing a command like

	pppd /dev/ttya 38400 connect 'chat -f /etc/ppp/chat-script'

where the file /etc/ppp/chat-script contains

	"" atdt2135476
	login: myname
	Password: "\qmypassword"
	"$ " "\qpppd"

The words in this script are alternately strings to look for and
strings to send.  In this example, we start by sending a dial command
to the modem; then we look for "login:", send "myname", look for
"Password:", send "mypassword" (the "\q" prevents chat from logging it
when you use the -v option), look for "$ " (the end of the shell
prompt) and send "pppd" to start up ppp on the remote machine (the
"\q" cancels the effect of the previous "\q").

In another scenario, you could establish the serial link manually,
e.g. using Kermit to dial out, log into the remote machine, and issue
the commands to start ppp there.  Then you have to exit Kermit without
having the modem hang up, and then start pppd locally, using a command
like this:

	pppd /dev/ttya 38400

When a device is given, as in this command line, pppd will put itself
in the background.  The two pppd's should then negotiate and bring up
the link.  If you have edited /etc/syslog.conf as described above, you
will see messages from pppd giving the local and remote IP addresses
of the link when it is successfully established.

If the local machine has no other connection to the Internet, you can
ask pppd to add a default route via the remote host by adding the
`defaultroute' option to the pppd command.

N.B. When you run pppd on the remote machine, you usually want it to
use the tty device where you logged in.  In this case, do not give a
device name to pppd; it uses the controlling tty by default.  This may
be a pty, e.g., if the serial link contains a telnet session, except
under Ultrix (pppd will not run on a pty under Ultrix, due to the pty
driver not passing ioctls to the ppp line discipline code).

If the remote machine is connected to the Internet via a LAN, it is
often useful to add the `proxyarp' option.  The `asyncmap' option is
also useful if the serial line is not completely transparent;
`asyncmap 200a0000' is appropriate if the serial link includes a
telnet.

Some people find it convenient to set up a `ppp' username on the
remote machine, with no password, and a shell script which runs pppd
as its login shell.

Other random points about running pppd:
	- If you want the local address of the PPP link to be
	  different from the (first) IP address of the host, you need
	  to put the desired address on the pppd command line with a
	  colon appended.
	- The performance will probably be better if you reduce the
	  MRU (maximum receive unit) on both ends; 296 is a good
	  value.  To do this, use the option `mru 296'.
	- You DO NOT need to use ifconfig to configure the addresses
	  of the ppp interface.  Pppd does all the necessary work
	  (assigning addresses, marking the interface up, etc.).


Terminating the PPP link.

When you wish terminate the PPP link, you should send a TERM or INTR
signal to one of the pppd's, e.g., with a command like:

	kill `cat /etc/ppp/ppp0.pid`

on SunOS or Ultrix, or

	kill `cat /var/run/ppp0.pid`

on {386,Net,Free}BSD.

That pppd will inform the other pppd to terminate, and they will both
clean up and exit.

If pppd is attached to a hardware serial port connected to a modem,
then it should get a HUP signal when the modem hangs up, which will
cause it to clean up and exit.  Whether it does or not depends on the
driver, and on Suns, on the setting of the `tty soft carrier' flag,
which is manipulated by the /usr/etc/ttysoftcar program (see
ttysoftcar(8)).


Debugging.

If the link comes up successfully, you should see messages logged to
the console like "Local IP address:  xx.xx.xx.xx" and "Remote IP
address: yy.yy.yy.yy" (assuming you've edited /etc/syslog.conf as
described above).  If the link doesn't come up, it could be due to any
of several factors:

- Perhaps the serial connection is not being set up successfully, or
you haven't succeeded in getting ppp running on the remote machine.
You can use the -v flag to chat; it will then log the characters it
sends and receives (using syslog with facility `local2' and level
`debug').

- Perhaps the PPP negotiation with the peer is failing.  You can use
the `debug' option to pppd; it will then log the contents of all
control packets sent and received (using syslog with facility `daemon'
and level `debug').

In some cases, the link will come up successfully, but you may then be
unable to use network-based applications over the link.  This usually
indicates an IP-address assignment problem or a routing problem.  Or
you may be able to communicate with the peer machine but not any
machine beyond that.  Typically this is a routing problem.  For the
common case where the local machine is only connected to the Internet
via the peer, this problem can usually be solved if you:
	- assign the local machine an IP address on the same subnet
	  as the remote machine
	- use the `defaultroute' option on the local pppd
	- use the `proxyarp' option on the remote pppd.

For solving routing and network problems, the ifconfig, netstat -i,
netstat -r, ping and traceroute commands are useful.
